The SOLID principles are a set of five design guidelines in object-oriented 
programming intended to make software designs more understandable, 
flexible, and maintainable. 
They were promoted by Robert C. Martin ("Uncle Bob") and are the "North Star" for writing clean code.

1. Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)

    "A class should have one, and only one, reason to change."

A class should do one thing. If a class handles database logic, logging, and data processing, 
it’s a "God Object" that will break easily.

    Bad Example: A User class that saves itself to a database and also generates a PDF report of the user's data.

    Good Example: A User class for data, a UserRepository for database operations, and a UserReportGenerator for the PDF.

Orthogonal aspects should not be implemented together.

Guideline: "Prefer cohesive software entities. 
            Everything that does not strictly belong together should be seperated."



2. Open/Closed Principle (OCP)

    "Software entities should be open for extension, but closed for modification."

You should be able to add new functionality without 
touching the existing, tested code. You achieve this using interfaces or inheritance.

    Bad Example: A DiscountCalculator class with a giant if-else block for "Student," "Senior," and "Veteran" discounts. 
    Adding a "Black Friday" discount requires modifying the core class.

    Good Example: An IDiscount interface. Each discount type is its own class. 
    The calculator just loops through a list of IDiscount objects.

Guideline: Prefer software design that allows types to be 
modiefied without the need to modify exisitng code !


3. Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP)

    "Objects of a superclass should be replaceable
     with objects of its subclasses without breaking the application."

If Class B is a subclass of Class A, you should be able to pass B into any
 method that expects A without it exploding or behaving weirdly.

    Bad Example: The classic "Square-Rectangle" problem. 
    A Square inherits from Rectangle. 
    If you set the Width and Height independently on a Rectangle, it works; if you do it on a Square,
     the logic breaks because width must equal height.

    Good Example: Ensure that subclasses strictly adhere to the behavior promised by the parent.
     If a child cannot fulfill the parent's contract 
     (e.g., a Penguin class inheriting from Bird but throwing an error on Fly()), the inheritance is wrong.

Guidelines: Make sure inheritence is about behaviour not about data, basically inheritence should maintian invariants


4. Interface Segregation Principle (ISP)

    "No client should be forced to depend on methods it does not use."

It is better to have many small, specific interfaces than one massive, "fat" interface.

    Bad Example: An IMultiFunctionDevice interface with Print(), Scan(), and Fax(). 
    A simple Inkjet printer is forced to implement Fax() even if it can't do it.

    Good Example: Break it into IPrinter, IScanner, and IFaxMachine.
     A device only implements what it actually does.

Guidelines: Make sure interfaces dont induce unecessary dependencies


5. Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)

    "Depend on abstractions, not concretions."

High-level modules (the logic) should not depend on low-level modules (the tools).
 Both should depend on interfaces. This is the heart of Dependency Injection.

    Bad Example: A NotificationService class that creates a new EmailSender() 
    inside its constructor. The service is now "hard-wired" to email. If you want to send an SMS, you have to rewrite the service.

    Good Example: The NotificationService takes an IMessageSender
     interface in its constructor. 
     You can "inject" an EmailSender, SmsSender, or SlackSender without changing the service logic.
It is the high level modules which defines the implementation, hence the inverson!
Guidelines: Prefer to depend on abstractions instaed of conrete types







Software Design is the art(not science) of managing dependencies, and abstractions!

std::make_unique:
1. Pre C++17 used to enforce exception safety, not after C++17
2. Does not fullfill SRP - does not resolve any concern or Dependency
3. its not a factory function : it is just an automatic creation function

Software Design :
    1. how small enties depend on each other
    2. decisions which are easier to change
    3. design patterns
       Visior, Observer, Strategy

Software Architecture :
    1. How do big entities depend on each other
    2. Decisions that are hard to change
    3. Architectural patterns
    4. E.g: Client - Server architeture, Microservices, etc.

Idioms :
    Idioms can be design patterns or imlemntation details.
    Pimpl idiom, RAII Idiom, Copy and Swap Idiom, SFAINAE


Guideline: Purpose of a design pattern is to introduce a fitting abstraction for a well known problem!

std::make_unique is an implementation pattern not a design pattern.

Misconceptions:
    1. Limited to runtime polymorphism
    2. Limited to OO programming
    3. Language specific Idioms
    4. Can be recognized by structure


    Command design pattern: Introduces an abstraction on an action that can be invoked
        std::for_each(v.begin(), v.end(), [](int& elt) { elt++; });
        Command is about encapsulating a request
        specifies what nees to be done


    Strategy design pattern: Introduces a configuration for a context
        Strategy is about algorithm swapping.
        Species how it should be done.
        std::sort(v.begin(), v.end(), [](int a, int b) { return a < b} );

    Strategy / Command is about intent

    names should replect the intent of design patterns


Design patterns are everywhere in C++ std:
1. Strategy : algo swapping
    std::accumulate takes in a strategy for bianry operator
    std::vector takes in an allocator for allocation strategy
    std::unoredered_map : takes in an hash strategy
    std::unique_ptr : takes in a deletor strategy
2. Command : what needs to be done ?
    std::for_each
3. Iterator : forward, backward, const
    Algorithms : high level
    Containers : low level
    Iterators / Concepts serve as a solution to them
4. Adapter : Adapter is about compatibility
    std::stack, std::queue, std::priority_queue, are all adapters with default container as std::deque
5. Decorator : Heirarchial Allocators : Decorator is about enhancement. e.g: a coat, you are still you with augmentation
6. proxy : std::vector<bool> : Controls access to the object.
   The client doesn't even know it's talking to a proxy. The proxy decides whether/how to forward the call.
    auto&& elt = vec[2]; -> returns a kind of proxy, we can access bits in C++
    elt = false
    same for std::bitset

    eg: Lazy initialization / Access control / Caching, kind of a a bodyguard, decides if you get through

7. Type Erasure: e.g std::any / std::function. type erasure uses external polymorphism / bridge / prototype
8. CRTP : 
9. Visitor : type based programming is hard to maintian,
             virtual polymorphism : changing interfaces is hard to maintain

             e.g shape interface
             operations arre isolated in visitors

             advantages:
                1. non intrusive opertion addition OCP
                2. isolation of implementaiton details SRP
            disadvantages:
                3. RESTRICTS OPERATION TO public interface
                3. impedes addtion of ne types
                4. 2 indirections due to polymprphism
            solution to disadvantages 
                std::variant -> non polymorphic interface
                supports open set of operations on a closed set of types

10. Bridge: Used to hide implementaition in .h file






















